``It's important that we get every agency of the federal government thinking
about Indians and employing Indian people,'' Cutler said Tuesday, one day after
she outlined the plan to tribal leaders at a meeting of the United South and
Eastern Tribes, which represents 23 tribes from Maine to Texas.
Clinton announced the spending initiative in his State of the Union address
last week, but did not mention any specifics.
''There are limited opportunities on the reservation, especially
those in rural areas,'' said Kevin Shendoe, a member of New
Mexico's Jemez Pueblo who started a group to help youths develop
leadership skills.
''If we need treatment for sexual abuse or domestic
violence or alcohol treatment, there's no one to help us.
The Hualapai tribe is one of only two whose casinos failed
during the Indian gambling boom of the past decade, when revenues
exploded from $100 million in 1988 to $8.26 billion in 1998.
Some tribes, such as the Cherokee in Oklahoma, have worked to
wean themselves from federal dependency as funding for Indian
programs has waned.
The guys were so exhausted they were laying on the
bottom of the canoe.''
Revere's partner in this effort is Irene Houser, director of the
Northern Arapaho Tribe Community Services, who has distributed
produce around the Wind River Reservation and to the Pine Ridge
Reservation in southwestern South Dakota.
You can't tell me
this place doesn't do things for the community.''
It was the first time she ran for such a high
office and her strong showing stunned many tribal residents.
A full 60 percent of the perpetrators of violent crimes against
Indians were whites, according to the victims, while 29 percent of
the offenders were other Indians and 10 percent were described as
black, the report said.
The business-oriented tribal members seem to be winning.
Unemployment ran as high as 80 percent, and the
average life span was 47 years.
This tightly knit management process
ensures continuity and gives the tribe as a whole a means for
survival even when facing destructive natural elements or the
extreme pressures exerted upon them from the encroachment of modern
society.
But they have also seen marketing studies showing that
there is no other full-fledged casino in Georgia, Florida or the
Carolinas, and are convinced gamblers will make their way to this
nearly abandoned county once the lights flash on the proposed
casino, hotel and golf course.
``Most of these are based offshore,'' Hubbard said.
In the decade since, almost no one is satisfied with how those
laws have played out.
After returning from a cigarette
break in sub-zero temperatures, Smith flops down on a couch, curls
herself into a ball and falls asleep.
He started a training program for Indian teachers that will
increase their numbers from 4 to 20, made the curriculum more
culturally relevant, and has applied for money for a social
services center with probation officers and a mental health
counselor.
He scaled a chalky ridge called Million
Dollar Hill, poked in an abandoned cellar shrouded by trees,
scrambled down a deep ravine under a bridge, and combed an
algae-choked creek strewn with old tires..
